uuid: add page, uuidgen: update description (#5892)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/uuid.md

# uuid

> Generate and decode Universally Unique Identifiers (UUID).

> > More information: <https://manned.org/uuid>.

Author: Just a note, the official man page would be at http://www.ossp.org/man/man.cgi/pkg/lib/uuid/uuid_cli.pod

But it is at 500 error for a few days already, I have just written an email there.

The base page is at http://www.ossp.org/pkg/lib/uuid/

Manned.org displays the same man page as installed locally with the command, so it can probably stay as it is.

Reviewer: We can change the link as soon as the website works again, but for now `manned.org` is perfectly fine.

> - Generate a v1 UUID (time and node based):

Author: v1 is a default type having a *node* linking to a MAC address of the machine that generates it. I also need to learn more about it 😄

`uuid`

- Generate a v4 UUID (random data based):

`uuid -v {{4}}`

- Generate a v3 UUID (name based) with an URL namespace:

> `uuid -v {{3}} ns:URL {{https://example.com}}`

Author: - Generate a v5 UUID (name based) with an URL namespace:

`uuid -v {{5}} ns:URL {{https://example.com}}`

Author: Not sure what I did here yet. I had problems synchronizing because of the switch from `master` to `main` branch that was finalized recently (good job btw).

I wantent to use GitHub UI to add changes. The reason:

UUID v3 uses MD5 and UUID v5 uses SHA1, which is preferred. Our examples here should only include UUID v1, v4 and v5 in the final form (v2 not available and v3 is less secure).

Author: It doesn't look like the suggestions you all leave here, that are ready to be committed. Can you guys give me a hand (replacing number 3 with the number 5) till I figure it out?

Reviewer: @peterbabic you only have to put a

<p>```suggestion</p>

<p>```
around it

Author: @marchersimon that would have never occurred to me by chance

- Generate multiple v1 UUIDs at once by specifying a count:

`uuid -n {{12}}`

> - Generate a v1 UUID in a single integer value (SIV) representation format:
> 
> `uuid -F {{SIV}}`

Reviewer: What do you think of:
```suggestion
- Generate a v1 UUID and specify the output format:

`uuid -F {{BIN|STR|SIV}}`
```
?

Author: have not encountered a pipe | here yet, but definitely resembles well known syntax

Reviewer 2: We don't use it for actual syntax, we use it to indicate that there are multiple options.
https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=+repo:%5Egithub%5C.com/tldr-pages/tldr%24+%5C%7B%5C%7B%28%5B%5E%7B%7D%5D%2B%3F%5C%7C%29%2B%5B%5E%7B%7D%5D%2B%5C%7D%5C%7D&patternType=regexp

Author: Nice service that sourcegraph, thanks.

- Generate a v1 UUID and write the output to a file:

`uuid -o {{path/to/file}}`

- Decode a given UUID:

> `uuid -d {{68794df6-5e20-385f-ab08-bb73f8a433cb}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`uuid -d {{uuid}}`
```

# uuid

> Generate and decode Universally Unique Identifiers (UUID).
> See also `uuidgen`.
> More information: <https://manned.org/uuid>.

- Generate a v1 UUID (based on time and system's hardware address, if present):

`uuid`

> - Generate a v4 UUID (random data based):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generate a v4 UUID (based on random data):
```

`uuid -v {{4}}`

> - Generate a v5 UUID (name based) with a specified namespace prefix:

Author: @bl-ue regarding your previous suggestion:

```suggestion
- Generate a v5 UUID (based on the supplied object name) with a specified namespace prefix:
```

> - Generate a v5 UUID (name based) with an URL namespace:
> 
> `uuid -v {{5}} ns:URL {{https://example.com}}`

Author: I have generalized the example with all my newly acquired knowledge:

```suggestion
- Generate a v5 UUID (name based) with a specified namespace:

`uuid -v {{5}} ns:{{DNS|URL|OID|X500}} {{https://example.com}}`
```

Reviewer: Why does it has to be a URL? You can put any string you want in there. And why is there a URL namespace if you can use a URL with all other namespaces too?

If this is obvious or hard to explain with a few words, then the example is fine as is.

Author: @marchersimon yes, you can put any string there, there is no example of this here. But there are exactly for namepace *prefixes*, mentioned in the example. Does this read better?

```suggestion
- Generate a v5 UUID (name based) with a specified namespace prefix:

`uuid -v {{5}} ns:{{DNS|URL|OID|X500}} {{https://example.com}}`
```

Reviewer: I think the wording is fine, I'm just confused about the command itself. If any string is possible, why don't we use `uuid -v {{5}} ns:{{DNS|URL|OID|X500}} {{string}}` or something like that?

Author: @marchersimon aah yes, you are right, nice catch! I have edited the suggestion here to match the one in the [uuidgen](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/5892/files#diff-e6eaf9f527253cf5204d3886c8e32d44bb74188debe51af664430522ba68cbfb) file
